README.md, before:

# MachUpX
A new implementation of Warren F. Phillips' numerical lifting-line algorithm, combining the best of MachUp Pro and MachUp_Py.

Written by Cory Goates (graduate student, USU)

Discussion of the numerical lifting-line algorithm can be found in the following sources:

W. F. Phillips and D. O. Snyder. "Modern Adaptation of Prandtl's
Classic Lifting-Line Theory", Journal of Aircraft, Vol. 37, No. 4
(2000), pp. 662-670.

W. F. Phillips, "Flow over Multiple Lifting Surfaces," Mechanics of
Flight, 2nd ed., Wiley, New Jersey, 2010, pp. 94 -107.

## Documentation
Documentation can be found at [ReadTheDocs](https://machupx.readthedocs.io). Please refer to the documentation for instructions on installation, etc. Specific help with package functions can also be found in the docstrings. Please read the documentation thoroughly before contacting the development team.

## Support
There is an active MachUp discussion forum on [Google Groups](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!categories/machup_forum). Help on using MachUpX can be found there.
For bugs, create a new issue on the Github repo.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT license. See LICENSE file for more information.

Commit message:

Cleaning up from matching Jackson's case and trying to get circulation to match in a case including sideslip.

README.md, after:

# MachUpX
A new implementation of Warren F. Phillips' numerical lifting-line algorithm, combining the best of MachUp Pro and MachUp_Py.

Written by Cory Goates (graduate student, USU)

Discussion of the numerical lifting-line algorithm can be found in the following sources:

W. F. Phillips and D. O. Snyder. "Modern Adaptation of Prandtl's
Classic Lifting-Line Theory", Journal of Aircraft, Vol. 37, No. 4
(2000), pp. 662-670.

W. F. Phillips, "Flow over Multiple Lifting Surfaces," Mechanics of
Flight, 2nd ed., Wiley, New Jersey, 2010, pp. 94 -107.

This version of MachUpX optionally incorporates changes to Phillips' algorithm to ensure grid convergence in the case of swept wings and wings in sideslip. More on this can be found in the following sources:

J. T. Reid and D. F. Hunsaker, "A General Approach to Lifting-Line Theory, Applied to Wings with Sweep," AIAA SciTech Forum, Orlando, 2020.

## Documentation
Documentation can be found at [ReadTheDocs](https://machupx.readthedocs.io). Please refer to the documentation for instructions on installation, etc. Specific help with package functions can also be found in the docstrings. Please read the documentation thoroughly before contacting the development team.

## Support
There is an active MachUp discussion forum on [Google Groups](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!categories/machup_forum). Help on using MachUpX can be found there.
For bugs, create a new issue on the Github repo.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT license. See LICENSE file for more information.
