# Changes Between Version 1 and Version 2
After the development of MachUpX 1, we found that significant improvements could be made to the user interface and code structure. As such, we have made some changes switching to Version 2. These changes mean that input files written for Version 1 may no longer run properly for Version 2. However, minimal effort should be required to update. The various changes are explained below.

## Aicraft State Specification
Version 1 of MachUpX supports two state input types, 'aerodynamic' and 'rigid_body'. Essentially, the only difference between these two was how the velocity was specified. To simplify things, we have removed the requirement to specify whether the input state is 'aerodynamic' or 'rigid_body'. Instead, the user must simply give the velocity in one of two ways. The first method is to give the magnitude of the aircraft's velocity and specify 'alpha' and 'beta' as well. If 'alpha' or 'beta' are not specified, they are assumed to be zero. The second method is to give the body-fixed velocity components of the aircraft (i.e. u, v, and w). These should be given as a list to the 'velocity' key. Version 2 will no longer support inputting Earth-fixed velocities. Please note that the velocities specified are done so without respect to wind direction or magnitude, if such is present in the scene. If there is wind, then 'alpha' and 'beta' will not be true aerodynamic angles, but will represent the velocity of the aircraft as if there were no wind.

## Function Arguments
To simplify code structure, most of the scene member methods now use keyword arguments (kwargs as they are called in Python). You can read more about kwargs [here](https://book.pythontips.com/en/latest/args_and_kwargs.html). This may cause some scene method calls to break. In most cases, this can be fixed by formatting the method arguments as kwargs.